my name is Jay and I took the IELTS and
got an IELTS nine and while I was taking
the test I had a realization about how
to do it everything you've heard is
wrong there's an incredibly simple way
to approach this part of the test it's a
different way to think about it and if
you change the way that you think about
it you can increase your scores
dramatically so the IELTS people
describe the three parts of the test as
the introduction and interview the long
turn and the discussion this is wrong
this isn't a good description do you
want to know actually what you have to
do because it's much easier
you have to small talk tell a story and
discuss big ideas let's look at each of
these parts and I'm going to teach you
some rules that you need to apply part
one small talk in the first part the
examiner will ask you some questions
about yourself there's only really one
rule to remember here elaborate this
means that you need to extend your
answers don't give your answers in one
or two words you need to give longer
more interesting answers don't go on for
too long but make sure that you
elaborate unexpected change of topic
there's also something interesting to
know about this first part of the test
after the really basic questions about
where you're from and what you do the
examiner is going to change the topic
very unexpectedly and ask you something
like do you like going to the cinema and
you need to be ready for this change of
topic and again all you need to do is
elaborate that's the only rule you need
to remember for this part of the test
part to tell a story in this part the
examiner is going to give you a task
card and one minute to prepare to speak
then you have to speak for one to two
minutes about the task
the task card looks like this it's got
three dot points that you need to cover
and a statement at the end this part of
the test is hard you need to think about
it differently here you need to tell a
great story and the task card will guide
you
the first rule here is that your story
does not need to be true you don't need
to tell the truth in are not speaking in
fact you should embellish your story
embellish your story all good stories
embellish what this means is that you
add details to your story that may not
be true but they're interesting you
should speak about an experience that
happened to you that relates to the task
card but make up details as you go along
to make the story more complex and more
interesting remember that the examiner
is sitting there all day listening to
boring boring stories the same thing
over and over again and it's very easy
for him or her to give you an IELTS 6
the only way to get an IELTS 9 is to
tell a great story you also need to
understand that the task card relates to
a boring topic so you need to embellish
you need to add interesting but untrue
ideas when I did mine I embellished I
had to because I had nothing interesting
to say about the task card as a result I
told a great story and as a result of
that I got a 9 digress you also need to
digress this means that you go off-topic
temporarily to add some of those untrue
details think of your story is a
straight road that passes through each
dot point on the task card but you also
take a few detours to explain some extra
details if you don't digress you're
going to go around and around in circles
and that's not good or you might finish
speaking into 30 seconds and that's
really not good
so to tell an interesting 2-minute story
you need to embellish and you need to
digress these are the two rules for
success in part 2 part 3 discuss Big
Ideas okay so after the small talk where
you elaborate and the story where you
embellish and digress the examiner is
going to ask you some challenging
questions related to the task card here
is where you have to show off your
language skills you need to discuss big
ideas with the examiner you need to be
philosophical you need to be thoughtful
you need to be fascinating if you answer
with dull boring typical answers you
will not get a high score you need to
understand that language is used to
express ideas if you have boring ideas
you're going to use boring language to
express them but if you have fascinating
ideas you have to use fascinating
language to express them look at this
pyramid you can see at the top of the
pyramid the IELTS nine you can see that
the best most interesting most abstract
ideas exist at the top of the pyramid
and to express those fascinating ideas
you need to use articulate less common
more precise language at the bottom of
the pyramid are basic boring ideas to
express them you use basic boring
language the examiner doesn't want you
to answer with boring answers the
examiner wants to hear fascinating
answers to his or her questions answers
that nobody else says so you need three
things are actually four things you need
fascinating ideas you need vocabulary
you need grammar and you also need clear
pronunciation if you have these four
components you can achieve an IELTS 9
okay now I want to give you a chance to
practice what we've learnt practice part
1 small talk
I'm about to show you three small talk
questions I want you to answer the
questions and I want you to elaborate
also be prepared for the unexpected
change of topic where are you from are
you a student or do you work do you
enjoy going to the cinema practice part
to tell a story now I want you to tell
me a great story I'm going to give you a
task card instead of writing something
down I just want you to relax and I want
you to use an experience from your life
but be prepared to embellish and digress
pause the video for three minutes you
have one minute to prepare to speak and
then two minutes to speak tell me a
great story describe something you own
which is very important to you you
should say where you got it from how
long you've had it what you use it for
and explain why it's important to you
practice part three discuss Big Ideas
okay
now we're going to ask you three
challenging questions and I want you to
answer them using Big Ideas an
articulate precise language you need to
be thoughtful pause the video after each
question and spend about 30 seconds on
each one be fascinating let's consider
first of all how people's values have
changed what kind of things give status
to people in your country have things
changed since your parents time finally
let's talk about the role of advertising
do you think advertising influences what
people buy questions okay so we've got a
few questions from our ET users about
the rules for success Ganapati from
india has asked how do i elaborate in
part one if the question is really
straightforward good question let me
give you an example let's say the
examiner asks you where you're from
which is a really simple question you
can answer by saying India but this
won't get you a high score or you can
answer by saying I'm from a small city
just south of Bangalore called Mysore in
India
Mysore is a unique city because there's
a palace where the King used to live etc
you need to extend your answers like
this the next question is from Herman
from Indonesia
Herman asks how should I prepare in the
one minute before telling my story okay
when I took my IELTS I didn't write
anything down
I read the task card very carefully I
made sure that I understood everything
it was asking me to do
I then relaxed and remembered a story
relating to the task card and went
through the story in my head you may
want to write down a few notes but I
don't think there's enough time I think
you're better off to prepare your story
in your mind the last question is from
Daniel from South Korea he asks what do
I do if I do not understand what the
examiner asks me okay good question here
you can just ask the examiner to repeat
the question as simple as that just say
sorry can you ask me that again and the
examiner will repeat the question but in
different words cool done e to language
comm I hope that helps if you want help
from an expert teacher like me to
practice IELTS speaking then go to WWE
to language comm we can help you with
all parts of the test thanks for
watching
you